Upsampling:
  I imagine a construct which creates high-sample-rate, noisy information from low-sample-rate,
  repeating information.  It plots the sample time for each sample on the expected time of the
  repeated signal, to create a highly sampled signal.  The frequency of the leftover noise should
  be incredibly high and hence easy to filter.
  
  This construct would need to connect with another construct which predicts the onset time of
  each repeated signal.  The output of this construct should be usable to adjust this prediction,
  and rerun the analysis -- possibly in a feedback loop, or possibly in some interrelationship
  with other metrics.

  How well this technique works will depend on the nature of the underlying sampling mechanism.
  It may need to be tweaked to account for those details.  I think there was a brief thread
  in the osmosdr mailing list regarding measuring the noisefloor that looks like it contains
  important background material.  But the first step would be to just try the vanilla technique.

Keylogging:
  While watching for the pixel clock signal in osmocom_fft,
  I noticed there is a signal during keypress.  75.67 MHz and 77.68 MHz
  show a traveling FM signal while a key is pressed.
  At 2.4MHz sample rate, this signal appears to oscillate weak/strong every
  other FFT line, implying it contains data that could be amplified by summing over time.

  To see this:
    Using the keyboard of my Dell Latitude E6430, with the rtl-sdr nooelec antenna leaning against the LCD panel:
    $ osmocom_fft -a rtl=0 -Wv -s 2.4M -f 76.75M -g 50
    hit autoscale, then watch the left and right edges of the waterfall as a key is pressed and released

  Note: I tried this again after a bit, and the effect had moved to ~77.5 MHz

Signal Finding:
  - ELF FFT
      I tried decimating the signal down by 8k in gnuradio and threw the result
      at fosphor.  It just found signals very close to 77.5 MHz until I also
      converted the complex signal to the real magnitude, and then the 60 Hz
      refresh rate showed up.  Also a signal around 90 Hz and around 120 Hz,
      which is strange, and a weak 10 Hz signal with strong harmonics.
      
      The strange bit was that 90 Hz was stronger than 60 Hz.

      Unfortunately, just using this approach with fosphor via gnuradio is very
      slow, because it accumulates 1024 samples per row and doesn't even update
      the display every row.  I think 1024 samples is around 3 seconds!

      I feel the need for conversion to the real domain is indicated by not
      being precisely tuned to the clock rate, such that each frame has a
      different phase.  I guess one solution would be to phase shift each
      frame such that they line up.  But that won't be needed for just
      noise measurement.
